[SQUIR-157] docs.akeneo.com page for Flex to Srnt migration (#1855)
akeneo/pim-docs: migrate_pim/migrate_to_saas.rst

> Migrate to Serenity (SaaS)

Author: To our customers, Serenity and SaaS are the same thing. @betty-godier is checking how and when we will begin phasing out the Serenity naming conventions, but for now, I have included both "Serenity" and "SaaS" so that we don't confuse customers.

We can revise this in the future when we begin to phase out the Serenity naming convention across all docs.

    database is not up to date. Please run ``bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate``, run the ``status`` command again,
    and send us the output of all of these commands so that we can see any changes.

Check your filesystem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We also require the output of the following commands, so that we can check to make sure your filesystem adapter is set up correctly for the migration to Serenity.

.. code:: bash

    $ cd /home/akeneo/pim
    $ bin/console debug:config OneupFlysystemBundle

Schedule a timeslot for migration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Akeneo Support team **must validate** the output of the above commands before we can schedule any migration.

Once we have received all of this information and validated it, we can schedule the Flexibility to Serenity migration operation with our Cloud Engineering team. 
Their hours are **Monday to Friday, 9:00 am to 6:00 pm CET**. Please provide at least 48 hours notice between your request and the actual migration time slot.
This gives our team time to prepare and to ensure that your migration runs smoothly.

> We usually estimate 2 hours for each migration, although the duration of individual migration operations can vary, especially if your catalog is very large or complex.

Reviewer: it's a very optimistic view.
according to past migrations, for most of our customers, it took between 2 hours to 4 hours.

Author: Good point. I'll adjust it. 👍🏻

Author: ```suggestion
For most instances, migrations will take between 2 and 4 hours. However, the duration of individual migration operations can vary, especially if your catalog is very large or complex.

If you have concerns about the timing of a migration, please let us know in the migration Support ticket and we will work with you to find the best solution.
```

    If we request any changes, we may ask you to run some commands again to check the updated status of your PIM.

Check your database schema
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Please send us the results of the following shell commands so that we can ensure your database schema is up-up-to-date and compatible with a migration.

.. code:: bash

    $ cd /home/akeneo/pim
    $ bin/console pimee:database:inspect -f --env=dev
    $ composer require jfcherng/php-diff
    $ bin/console pimee:database:diff --env=dev
    $ bin/console doctrine:migrations:status

.. warning::

    If the results of ``bin/console doctrine:migrations:status`` show a non-zero number of "New" migrations, your
    database is not up to date. Please run ``bin/console doctrine:migrations:migrate``, run the ``status`` command again,
    and send us the output of all of these commands so that we can see any changes.

Check your filesystem
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We also require the output of the following commands, so that we can check to make sure your filesystem adapter is set up correctly for the migration to Serenity.

.. code:: bash

>     $ cd /home/akeneo/pim

Reviewer 2: As it also concerns OnPremise customers - should we change it to "path to your PIM repository"?

Author: I will add a note that reflects this. 👍🏻

    $ bin/console debug:config OneupFlysystemBundle

Schedule a timeslot for migration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Akeneo Support team **must validate** the output of the above commands before we can schedule any migration.

Once we have received all of this information and validated it, we can schedule the Flexibility to Serenity migration operation with our Cloud Engineering team. 
Their hours are **Monday to Friday, 9:00 am to 6:00 pm CET**. Please provide at least 48 hours notice between your request and the actual migration time slot.
This gives our team time to prepare and to ensure that your migration runs smoothly.

> For most instances, migrations will take between 2 and 4 hours. However, the duration of individual migration operations can vary — especially if your catalog is very large or complex.

Reviewer 2: Could we say that a catalogue is "very large"? I'm afraid that they only think about the "number of products". We usually talking about "volumetry", as it could be on different axis

Author: I don't want to confuse anyone, and if a catalog is not large in terms of SKUs, but it does have many axes, I think that is covered by the phrase `or complex`.

Quantifying the complexity of a catalog and its effects is difficult, but the point of this document is not to make an estimate of how long the migration will last -- just to lay out general expectations. If a migration takes more than 4 hours, it is almost certainly because the catalog (axes, SKUs, etc -- inclusive) is complex. If there is a different reason, we can relay that on a case by case basis.

Migrate to Serenity (SaaS)
==========================

`Learn more about Akeneo's SaaS offering (Serenity) <https://help.akeneo.com/en_US/everything-you-need-to-know-about-our-pim-versions#serenity>`_

If you are using **Enterprise Edition** of an On-Premise or Flexibility (PaaS) instance, your instance can be migrated to Serenity!

What to expect
--------------

* Your PIM's URL will not change if you are migrating a Flexibility (PaaS) instance

> * If you have multiple instances (*ex: testing, staging, and production*), each instance needs to be migrated individually

Reviewer 3: It's also possible to use the production data to create all the environments if they want.

  * This can give you a chance to run tests before your production instance is migrated

* There is no need to manually update your PIM — all product feature and security updates are done automatically

* There will be some downtime as we migrate your Flexibility instance to a Serenity one

  * We will work with you to minimize the business impact of this downtime

> Before you begin

Reviewer 3: Is there any specificity with Onboarder?

Author: I'm not sure what you mean

Guides to update the PIM to latest patch can be found here: :doc:`./apply_patch/index`

Backup your PIM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We *strongly* advise you to make a MySQL backup of your data before you begin the migration process.

To do so, please follow the directions in our :doc:`/cloud_edition/flexibility_mode/docs/system_administration` documentation.

Disable custom code
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Serenity does not support custom code within the PIM. In Serenity, all custom features use API connections and apps from the `App Store <https://apps.akeneo.com>`_ 
(including `custom apps <https://api.akeneo.com/apps/create-custom-app.html>`_).

**If you have custom code bundles, please** `remove them <https://docs.akeneo.com/master/maintain_pim/first_aid_kit/index.html#step-10-did-you-customize-your-pim>`_ 
**before you begin the migration process.**

If you cannot find a suitable replacement for your custom code, please contact your Customer Success Manager — they may be able to suggest changes
or offer solutions that are compatibile with Serenity.

The migration process
---------------------

Open a Support ticket
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To begin the process to migrate from an On-Premise or Flexibility instance to a Serenity instance, you will need to open a ticket with Akeneo Support. 

Reviewer 3: We could add a link to the correct helpdesk page: https://akeneo.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/8/group/8/create/198

Author: ```suggestion
To begin the process to migrate from an On-Premise or Flexibility instance to a Serenity instance, you will need to `open a ticket with Akeneo Support. <https://akeneo.atlassian.net/servicedesk/customer/portal/8/group/8/create/198>_` 
```
